# CS340

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

  When building code projects like the ones for this course there are a few key things to keep in mind, making sure all your code follows modern style standards for indentation, commenting on code functions and descriptions, and any needed instructions to run the code for another developer. In these projects on all the CRUD Python modules, it was imparative to describe every CRUD function and how it tied back into the main build so that if someone else had to read your code they could see exactloy what ever block did and its function. Since we were working these projects over multiple weeks, it was important to have well thought out comments and seperated code blocks so that when we returned after awhile we could hop right back in without having to dig around the code to find where we needed to adjust functionality.

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

   I like to approach problems as a computer scientist by first gathering all the requirements needed for the project and making a develoment plan on how I think I will tackle the build. This can change overtime, but having a list of objectives to check off and test as I go helps verify functionality in each module and not waiting till the end of the project. When building the dashboard for Grazioso Salvare, I first made sure all my connection variables passed and I could generate a dashboard using dash, then I worked each of the display modules piece by piece and debugged them along the way. Breaking up code into smaller sections makes it a more approachable development process. Going forward I would try to build new databases off of the techniques I perfected throughout this course to try and follow the same naming and building conventions to keep my work consistent.

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

  Computer scientists take everyday problems and tasks and try to build programs and applications to help end users access their data and requests in more efficient ways while continuously innovating new ways to build future projects. In working a project like the one for Grazioso Salvare, this app will help them place rescue pets with greater ease and quickness so they can focus more on actually helping the animals and not wasting time on paging through out of date databases. 
